Everyone, today I have a coding interview question, and it's a question that's asked by Amazon and
in this problem, we need to figure out when is the best time to buy and sell the stock.
So let's get right to it.
OK, guys, to solve this problem, you're given a function called max profit.
OK, which takes an area of prices.
Right, and returns the maximum profit, so we have to design an algorithm to find the maximum profit.
OK, so let's start with this area.
OK, so it looks like all we have to do is find the max number, which is right here, seven and the
PIN number, which is right here one, and subtract the two to find the maximum profit.
So seven minus one, which will equals six and that would be over maximum profit.
But remember, since these are stock prices, you first have to buy the stock before you sell it.
So in reality, what we just underlined is a case where you would buy the stock at seven.
Right, and then you would sell for only one dollars.
So our profit would be negative six dollars.
OK, guys, so all we need is two variables to solve this.
So first, we need is the minimum buy price.
The price we were going to buy the stock market and the max profit.
So it would be the greatest number, minus the minimum number, which would give us the max profit,
so let's look through this area, OK?
And then we can find the minimum buy price and the max profit.
OK, so let's start with the first index.
So can seven be the minimum buy price?
Sure, because we haven't seen any other element in the area, so we'll make this as the minimum.
OK, and then we move on to the second index, the next index, and which is one, so should one be
the minimum by price?
Yes, that would be a good idea because one is less than seven.
So actually, it would be a good idea to buy it at just a one dollar.
So let's make minimum buy price at one.
OK, so let's move on to the next index, which is five.
Can can this be the minimum by price?
Well, five is greater than one, so it wouldn't be a good idea to buy it at five dollars.
But can we sell it at this price?
Sure.
That would be a good idea.
So because we're going to make a profit.
So five minus one, which will give us four.
So we'll make the profit of four dollars.
OK, then we move on to the next index, which is three.
So should we should we buy it at this this price at three dollars?
No, because three is greater than one.
So it wouldn't be a good idea.
So can we should we, like, sell this stock at this price?
Well, no, because three minus one, which would give us only two.
So that's not a good profit for us.
So we'll keep the max profit at four and then we'll move on to the next index, which is six.
So of course, we're not going to buy it for six dollars because we already bought it for one dollar,
which is a better deal.
So can we sell it at this price?
Would it give us a better profit?
So actually it would give us a better profit because six minus one, which will give us five.
So we will sell it at six dollars and that would make this max profit as five.
So let's go on to the last element in the area, which is for should we buy it at this price?
Is this the minimum price?
No, because one is still lower than that.
Can we should we actually sell it at at this price?
Well, no, because that would only give us a profit of three dollars.
So that's all we have found over a minimum by price.
And we have found our maximum profit and all we have to do is return this max profit.
So let's go see this in our code.
OK, guys, so we're given a function called max profit and it's given a prices, a area of prices,
and the first way we're going to create is a minimum buy price.
And we're going to set that to infinity because we want to set a number so high that when we get to
the first price then is definitely lower than that.
OK, and then we're going to create a variable called Max Profit and we're going to set that to zero
because we have we have not done any transactions yet.
Then we will do a check to make sure our record is a fail safe, so we're going to check if the prices
does not exist or if the price is lenth is equal to zero, then we're just going to return to Max,
which is currently zero.
Oh, we're going to look through the prices and remember, the price is the stock price.
So when we're looping, we are trying to find the best price to buy our stock.
So if the price of the current price is less than the minimum by price, then definitely we want to
buy at that price.
So we're going to set the minimum buy price to that price.
And then we're going to check.
So if it's if the price is not less than the minimum by price, then we're going to go into this Felsted.
So if the price minus the minimum by price is greater than the max profit, then what we're going to
do is we're going to set the max profit to this.
So we're going to take the price.
Let's say the price is higher than the minimum by price, then we definitely want to sell our stock.
So what we'll do is we'll take that price and we will sell the stock.
So minus the minimum buy price and we will get the max profit.
And that's pretty much it.
That's how we will get the max profit and the minimum buy price.
And at the end of this fall, we just want to return our max profit.